Improving charm's documentation (#57)
canonical/loki-k8s-operator: INTEGRATING.md

to receive log from [Loki clients](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/) that relates
with this charm.

The Loki charm supports user-provided alert rules. A client charm (from the 'requires` side of the relation)
that needs to forward alert rules to Loki should place them in a directory named `loki_alert_rules`
within the client charm's source directory (`./src`).

A new Loki configuration is generated every time a new relation is created, or an existing one changes.

The library `log_proxy` provides a way to setup a charms as a Log Proxy (Provider or Consumer) to Loki.

### Libraries

#### `loki_push_api`

This library provides two main objects:

- `LokiPushApiProvider`: This object is meant to be used by any charmed operator that needs to
implement the provider side of the `loki_push_api` relation interface.
For instance a Loki charm.

- `LokiPushApiConsumer`: This object is meant to be used by any charmed operator that needs to
send log to Loki by implementing the consumer side of the `loki_push_api` relation interface.
For instance a Promtail or Grafana agent charm that needs to send logs to Loki.

> Learn more about this library [on charmhub](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/loki_push_api).

Reviewer: Also; switch the order and put this prior to the Provider.

## Integrating Loki Charmed Operator

### Overview

> This Loki Charmed Operator provides two libraries so you can use them to integrate it
> with other charms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Loki Charmed Operator provides two libraries for integrating with other charms:
```

- [`loki_push_api`](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/loki_push_api)
- [`log_proxy`](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/log_proxy)

> The library `loki_push_api` provides

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `loki_push_api` library provides
```

[endpoint URL](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/api/#post-lokiapiv1push)
to receive log from [Loki clients](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/) that relates

> with this charm.

Reviewer 2: This part is a little confusing: it mentions charms but links to the underlying software.

Author: Definitely we need a better wording here.

> Besides this Loki charmed operator may receive from other charms alert rules which tells when
> to raise alerts.
> These rules are read from a directory named `loki_alert_rules`, if present at the top level,
> within the client charm's source (`src`) directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Loki charm supports user-provided alert rules. A client charm (from the 'requires` side of the relation)
that needs to forward alert rules to Loki should place them in a directory named `loki_alert_rules`
within the client charm's source directory (`./src`).
```

Any time new relations are made, or existing ones changed, between the

> Loki charm and any scrape target charm, a new Loki configuration is generated.

Reviewer 2: > A new Loki configuration is generated every time a new relation is created, or an existing one changes.

The library `log_proxy` provides a way to setup a charms as a Log Proxy (Provider or Consumer) to Loki.

> ### Libraries

Reviewer 2: Should the content below be moved into the "code overview" section?

Author: What do you think @simskij ?

#### `loki_push_api`

This library provides two main objects:

- `LokiPushApiProvider`: This object is meant to be used by any charmed operator that needs to
implement the provider side of the `loki_push_api` relation interface.
For instance a Loki charm.

- `LokiPushApiConsumer`: This object is meant to be used by any charmed operator that needs to
send log to Loki by implementing the consumer side of the `loki_push_api` relation interface.
For instance a Promtail or Grafana agent charm that needs to send logs to Loki.

> Learn more about this library [in charmhub](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/loki_push_api).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more about this library [on charmhub](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/loki_push_api).
```

- `LogProxyProvider`: This object can be used by any charmed operator that needs to act
as a Log Proxy to Loki by implementing the provider side of `loki_push_api` relation interface.
For instance a Grafana agent or Promtail charmed operator that receives logs from a workload
and forward them to Loki.

- `LogProxyConsumer`: This object can be used by any K8s charmed operator that needs to
send log to Loki through a Log Proxy by implementing the consumer side of the `loki_push_api`
relation interface.
When a relation with a Charmed Operator that implements the `LogProxyProvider` is established,
this object injects and configure into the workload container a [Promtail binary](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/)
that will send logs to Loki through a Log Proxy charmed operator.

Filtering logs in Loki is largely performed on the basis of labels.
In the Juju ecosystem, Juju topology labels are used to uniquely identify the workload that
generates telemetry like logs.
In order to be able to control the labels on the logs pushed this object injects a Pebble layer
that runs Promtail in the workload container, injecting Juju topology labels into the
logs on the fly.

> Learn more about this library [in charmhub](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/log_proxy).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more about this library [on charmhub](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/log_proxy).
```

> #### Integration example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Integration example
```

With both libraries `loki_push_api` and `log_proxy` the following integration can be done:

```
┌──────────────────┐  Workload logs  ┌────────────────────┐  Workloads logs ┌──────────────────┐
│                  │ ───────────────►│                    │ ───────────────►│                  │
│ Custom Workload  │                 │  Grafana agent     │                 │ Loki             │
│                  ├─────────────────┤                    ├─────────────────┤                  │
│ Charmed Operator │ loki_push_api   │  Charmed Operator  │  loki_push_api  │ Charmed Operator │
│                  │                 │                    │                 │                  │
└──────────────────┘                 └────────────────────┘                 └──────────────────┘
Uses:                                 Uses:                                  Uses:
- LogProxyConsumer                    - LokiPushApiConsumer                 - LokiPushApiProvider
                                      - LogProxyProvider

> ```

Reviewer 2: Awesome!
Have you also considered a `.drawio.svg` or `.drawio.png` diagram format (standard format with embedded draw.io information)?

Author: Yes.
I thought that if we are happy with this simple diagrams we can move later to a SVG

within the client charm's source directory (`./src`).

A new Loki configuration is generated every time a new relation is created, or an existing one changes.

The library `log_proxy` provides a way to setup a charms as a Log Proxy (Provider or Consumer) to Loki.

### Libraries

#### `loki_push_api`

This library provides two main objects:

- `LokiPushApiConsumer`: This object may be used by any charmed operator that wants to
send logs to Loki by implementing the consumer side of the `loki_push_api` relation interface.
For instance a Promtail, Grafana agent charm, or any other application charm that wants to be able to send logs to Loki.
- `LokiPushApiProvider`: This object may be used by any charmed operator that wants to
provide a way to push loki logs **to it**. For instance a Loki charm.

Learn more about this library [on charmhub](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/loki_push_api).

#### `log_proxy`

This library provides two main objects:

- `LogProxyConsumer`: This object may be used by any K8s charmed operator that wants to
send logs to Loki through a log proxy by implementing the consumer side of the `loki_push_api`
relation interface.

> When a relation with a Charmed Operator implementing the `LogProxyProvider` is established,

Reviewer 2: ~~the~~ `LogProxyProvider`

## Integrating Loki Charmed Operator

### Overview

This Loki Charmed Operator provides two libraries for integrating with other charms:

- [`loki_push_api`](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/loki_push_api)
- [`log_proxy`](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/log_proxy)

> The `loki_push_api` library provides an endpoint URL used to send log entries to Loki from [Loki clients](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/).
> You can read more about this in [Loki documentation page.](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/api/#post-lokiapiv1push)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `loki_push_api` library provides an endpoint URL used to send log entries to Loki from [compatible clients](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/). You can read more about this in [the official Loki documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/api/#post-lokiapiv1push).
```

The Loki charm supports user-provided alert rules. A client charm (from the 'requires` side of the relation)
that needs to forward alert rules to Loki should place them in a directory named `loki_alert_rules`
within the client charm's source directory (`./src`).

A new Loki configuration is generated every time a new relation is created, or an existing one changes.

The library `log_proxy` provides a way to setup a charms as a Log Proxy (Provider or Consumer) to Loki.

### Libraries

#### `loki_push_api`

This library provides two main objects:

> - `LokiPushApiProvider`: This object may be used by any charmed operator that wants to
> provide a way to push loki logs **to it**. For instance a Loki charm.
> 
> - `LokiPushApiConsumer`: This object may be used by any charmed operator that wants to
> send logs to Loki by implementing the consumer side of the `loki_push_api` relation interface.
> For instance a Promtail, Grafana agent charm, or any other application charm that wants to be able to send logs to Loki.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `LokiPushApiConsumer`: This object may be used by any charmed operator that wants to
send logs to Loki by implementing the consumer side of the `loki_push_api` relation interface.
For instance a Promtail, Grafana agent charm, or any other application charm that wants to be able to send logs to Loki.
- `LokiPushApiProvider`: This object may be used by any charmed operator that wants to
provide a way to push loki logs **to it**. For instance a Loki charm.
```

Learn more about this library [on charmhub](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s/libraries/loki_push_api).

#### `log_proxy`

This library provides two main objects:

> - `LogProxyProvider`: This object may be used by any charmed operator that wants to act
> as a log proxy to Loki by implementing the provider side of the `loki_push_api` relation interface.
> For instance, a Grafana agent or Promtail charmed operator receiving logs from a workload
> and forwarding them to Loki.
> 
> - `LogProxyConsumer`: This object may be used by any K8s charmed operator that wants to
> send logs to Loki through a log proxy by implementing the consumer side of the `loki_push_api`
> relation interface.
> When a relation with a Charmed Operator implementing the `LogProxyProvider` is established,
> this object injects a [Promtail binary](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/) into the workload container. This binary will then send logs to Loki through the log proxy provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `LogProxyConsumer`: This object may be used by any K8s charmed operator that wants to
send logs to Loki through a log proxy by implementing the consumer side of the `loki_push_api`
relation interface.
When a relation with a Charmed Operator implementing the `LogProxyProvider` is established,
this object injects a [Promtail binary](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/) into the workload container. This binary will then send logs to Loki through the log proxy provider.

- `LogProxyProvider`: This object may be used by any charmed operator that wants to act
as a log proxy to Loki by implementing the provider side of the `loki_push_api` relation interface.
For instance, a Grafana agent or Promtail charmed operator receiving logs from a workload
and forwarding them to Loki.
```
